## Reflection:
After our group was forcibly created during the Week 2 tutorial, we had formed a group chat via Facebook Messenger, which was established to be our primary form of communication outside of tutorials and labs. During the Week 3 tutorial, we had an additional member join our group, making us a group of 5 instead of 4. We added them to our group chat, GitLab project and brought them up to speed on our current progress and plans to complete the iteration.

This iteration was extremely rushed and last-minute, which was far from ideal. Whilst we were able to complete all the work, in a reasonably distributed manner before the deadline, most of the work was completed during Week 3 up till when it was due. This was because most of the group members did not previously know each other and it took a while to 'break the ice' and get to know each other and end up working on the same page. After this was achieved in the week 3 lab, we were able to communicate effectively and agreed to start tackling this iteration of the project.

With a deadline looming, we set up an action plan to complete all the work over the next few days during the Week 3 lab session. This included distributing functions and their associated tests to certain people. Key points for stories were generated from the project specification and these were added to the 'To-Do' area of our GitLab issues board. Each group member was assigned tasks which they were expected to complete by Saturday. On Saturday, the day before it was due, we agreed on a time for a 'standup', but as we were unable to meet, this was conducted over the internet through Facebook Messenger. During this standup, every team member went over their contribution and everyone else provided feedback. Once we were all happy with the quality of the work, this was finalised for submission. At the end of this, we collaborated via Google Docs to complete the 'assumptions', 'planning' and 'reflection' parts of the iteration.

The team set up a resolution method for standups, by voting unanimously. Where a unanimous verdict could not be achieved, we moved to a democractic majority verdict for conflict resolution. We have also discussed moving conflict resolution where possible into the 'merge request' feature of GitLab for future iterations. 

In summary, there is great room for improvement when it comes to what was done for this iteration. The last-minute nature of the work was far from ideal and we had all agreed that this could've been improved. Therefore, we've set up a plan for future iterations which will deter this issue from recurring. Additionally, as we've managed to get to know each other and are all in 'sync' now, we believe we got the 'wheel turning'. We've overcome the hard bit at the start and we anticipate smooth sailing from now on, including a distributed effort for future iterations.

