# Teamwork Reflection

During this iteration, we experienced multiple challenges which we had to overcome in order to complete the iteration to specification and on time. We also found that during this iteration, our group size effectively dropped from 5 to 4. Despite this, we were able to adapt and work around this change in plans, redistributing work and communicating changes. Throughout this iteration, we utilised many tools and conducted regular meetings to keep track of progress and ensure the whole team was on the same page. A fundamental principal that we worked to were the **AGILE** development practices, which involved frequent and functional iterations of the Whilst we tried to stick to the plan we set out during iteration 1, we found this to be unfeasible for numerous reasons, including:
- Loss of a group member, requiring work to be redistributed
- Waiting for lecture content for clarification and direction (especially for JWTs and hashing)
- Time commitments and clashes with mid-terms and other assignments
- Clarification of specifications and unexpected hurdles (such as order of functions required)

## How often you met, and why you met that often
Our team met synchronously twice a week and asynchronously often. Synchronous meetings involved all of us attending the labs and tutorials, with exception as required, to conduct a standup with our tutor and discuss progress. We also leveraged this opportunity to work together and tackle common issues as a team. In addition to this, we met every Saturday online as scheduled in our previous plan, via online conferencing. This involved code reviews and a virtual standup, where progress was discussed in further detail. This was also when we evaluated our progress relative to our plan and made adjustments. We met this often as these times were established to be the most practical based on availability. It wasn't possible to meet any more often and we found that this timeframe was sufficient for our purposes.

## What methods you used to ensure that meetings were successful
We ensured that our meetings were successful by setting out an agenda at the start and having all team members contribute to this. This way, all required topics would be covered, and everyone had their say. In addition to this, we also checked our task board against our plan to ensure that objective goals were being met in respect to time. To verify our progress, we also shared a screen online, where we walked through our work and tried to test the work together via the front end and Postman/ARC as a method of assurance. Furthermore, our standups during the tutorials were facilitated by our tutor, who asked the questions.

## What steps you took when things did not go to plan during iteration two
When things did not go to plan, as previously outlined, we implemented many on the fly changes in response. We found that adopting the **AGILE** development practices helped us overcome these hurdles and continue to work effectively. When we were not in line with the plan, we redistributed works and adjusted deadlines accordingly. As we lost a lot of time, we had to adjust our plan frequently and communicate these changes within our group. When team members ran into technical issues and struggled with making progress, we referred our work to one another and assisted each other in order to fully understand and complete our functions. Sometimes work was passed around, when one person was not capable of completing it.
.
## Details on how you had multiple people working on the same code
In multiple occasions we worked on the same code at the same time. This was especially an issue at the start as we weren't sharing much code at all and all had different implementations of stubs such as global data etc. We also found that our `server.py` was different for each person. We worked on the same code on different branches and then merged these when completed. Of course, we ran into merge conflicts, which were resolved, such that everyone’s code was combined. We also ensured that code was sufficiently commented and that common methods such as storing global data was shared such that everyone could use it. By committing regularly and working on our own branches, we were able to all work on overlapping code with little to no issue. As merges were done as a group during our meetings, we had no conflict issues that couldn't be easily resolved. We also engaged in *pair coding* a lot, which involved two people working on the same code at the same time together.

## Consistent work towards the goal of a working backend.
In reflection, we found ourselves in the unideal situation, where most of the work was completed in the last week. This was not part of the plan and occurred due to reasons mentioned above. Whilst we all met consistently and attempted to work consistently, most of the work was still done at the end. Unfortunately, this was out of our control due to other constraints. However, just because the programming happened towards the end, doesn't mean no work was done towards the goal of the working backend. In the earlier weeks, we spent most of our time understanding and preparing to develop the backend, still working towards our goal. We developed our own understandings and learnt a great deal in the earlier weeks, which allowed us to complete the project in time.

## Task board is always up to date and reflects ongoing work
We kept our task board up to date by dragging and dropping our *user story* cards on the taskboard from the *backlog*, which is where they were initially to *to do* as we were preparing to start them. Then when work commenced, they were moved to *in progress* and then *closed* as they were completed. However, when testing was conducted and errors or other issues were discovered, new tasks were created in *to do* to be addressed. These where then worked on and then *closed*. By doing this, we were able to keep our task board up to date and ensure it accurately reflected on our ongoing works. We also had the option of adding comments to tasks as required, but this wasn't used that much as most communication was done verbally.

## Demonstration of appropriate use of agile practices to work effectively as a team.
Our adoption of agile practices meant that we strived to frequently push functional modules and iterations of our work. This cyclic process was continuously completed as we worked on completing more and more of the specification, whilst maintaining a working product. By committing and pushing regularly, we were able to create many sprints or iterations. Other AGILE practices used have already been covered, including the use of the task board and frequent standups.

